I
there's always been a group of barefoot
runners going back forever really
there's always been a core group of
barefoot runners and just recently in
recent years has it become a phenomenon
or fad you know you look at a
traditional shoe and has an excessive
amount of arch support they're also
built with the extensive elevated heel
and so we're built on a two-to-one which
encourages a heel strike because of that
weight and that extension in the heel
when people run in a traditional shoe
they tend to as their foot swings out in
front of their body the shoe tends to
drop their foot tends to drop and then
it tends to catch underneath their body
so the heel contacts the ground first
their knee is more straight and this
causes the body to be in a place where
it's not in a good place to absorb
impact traditional footwear can weaken
your arch because you're using less
muscles as well as encourage bad
biomechanics people wearing traditional
shoes when they land out in front of
their body they tend to have broken
posture they tend to bend over do this
type of thing their arms tend to be more
all over the place and it's all you know
a lot of it has to do with spending more
time on the ground they're contacting
the ground out and from their body
spending all this time on the ground and
therefore everything else kind of goes
to pot too so they close down their
airway their arms go all over the place
their their back gets out of whack and
what not having worked in retail and
sold these type of footwear for years we
saw a problem with the shoe industry and
with the traditional Footwear and that's
why we quit our retail jobs and start at
our own Footwear company to try to
encourage the building of footwear that
allowed for this much more natural foot
strike under the bent knee underneath
your body without the two-two-one
profile so our shoes are built on a
one-to-one profile which we call zero
drop it's a really simple concept it's
very natural concept I mean you were
born zero drop you weren't born with an
elevated heel and barefoot running is it
teaches people to run much more
self-protective instead of you know
safer for the knees the lower legs
better posture things like that all
encourage a much more safe efficient and
we fill a faster type of running form
and running technique the closest shoes
we have to a barefoot experience are
these
shoes that we call the atom and the eve
so and they are similar to perhaps the
most well-known thing would be vibram
fivefingers in that it's a very thin
sole razor sized outsole shaped like a
foot but without the individual toe
pockets and customizable to be worn
either with no footbed inside so your
foot just three and a half millimeters
off the ground or they come with two
optional insoles one is an energy return
in Seoul with no arch support and then
the other is a what we call support
insult it has a little bit of arch
support to it we feel that these are
probably the truest barefoot running
experience you can get with a lot of
experience trail running and barefoot
can go hand in hand but for a lot of
beginners that is a bit of a tough sell
for sure and that's where she was a
little bit more protection can come in
and help out you want the benefits of
barefoot running but you want the
protection to be able to go on maybe
more varied terrain this is something
that we would we would term into the
natural running category yeah it's not
really a minimalist shoe like the Adam
and Eve or the vibram fivefingers but
it's by no means a traditional cushion
support base shoe you know this is for
maybe a gateway drug for that person who
doesn't want you just can't quite
convince themselves to go in such little
Footwear maybe this is the meat and
potatoes for that runner who wants to
run with better technique but still
wants to have a little bit of cushion or
neat their foot in the goal is you come
out in front of the body you're able to
remain much more parallel to the ground
rather than get that over stride
elevated heel strike here so again it
allows that much more natural foot
strike we have our foot shaped toe box
allowing your toes to be able to spread
out and balance and absorb shock and so
forth but we still have you know cushion
here because there's no downside of
having stronger feet and when people put
so much support in their shoes their
feet get weak over time barefoot running
is a means of kind of reclaiming your
feet reclaiming the muscles making
yourself stronger only good things
happen when you do that it's here to
stay in various forms in another and and
it's an exciting part almost a
revolution in the running industry
cuz all of a sudden it's much more
dynamic and people can look at it and
it's such a different light running in
general because of the barefoot running
movement
you